
# P10K

Inspired by Powerlevel9K, this is a powerline theme written from scratch in pure ZSH. It supports mixed async segments using zsh-async as a backend.

P10K is ZSH software, not just shell scripts. (See https://github.com/zdharma/Zsh-100-Commits-Club )

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->


- [Quickstart and Documentation](#quickstart-and-documentation)
- [Why P10K?](#why-p10k)
- [Note about Icons and Symbols](#note-about-icons-and-symbols)
- [Performance](#performance)
- [GitLab vs GitHub](#gitlab-vs-github)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Quickstart and Documentation

Visit the GitLab / GitHub Wiki! There you'll find docs about how to install and configure P10K.

If you're looking for the individual segment options, look in the `zsdoc` folder in this repo. Each segment has it's docs autogenerated by Zshelldoc.

## Why P10K?

P10K compared to P9K is ...

 - Configured and structured very differently
   - P10K uses ZSH associations for almost all options
   - There's no central icon or segment registration
   - Segments are free to do as they please
 - A much leaner, smaller (faster) codebase.
 - Easily extensible (works via shell functions and zsh's `fpath`)
 - More customizable (make your own segments with a standard API!)

P10K was built to support mixed async and non-async segments from the ground up. No more blocking calls for Git/HG/SVN information or any other command.

Also, async segments are smart:

 - redrawing the prompt doesn't start duplicate jobs
 - async output can be cached differently per-segment
 - custom async segments are easy to implement (3 shell functions) and require no changes or calls to P10K code

## Note about Icons and Symbols

If you're in it for the super-fancy icons from Nerd-Fonts, etc, Powerlevel9K is still a better choice as the advanced Icon registry and alternative font support is not present in P10K by default.

Official P10K segments will only use Unicode, UTF-8, and icons from the powerline patched fonts in order to both ease setup/configuration and simplify a lot of the code for speed.

Since it's supposed to be super easy to modify and make your own segments, we've left custom font icons up to the users for usage.

## Performance

 - Only functions that get used are loaded via ZSH's `fpath` autoload functionality
 - **There are no external calls in the main thread.** Program calls and shell forking is all done in an async worker.
 - Prompt segments can be compiled to ZSH word code for better startup time. (Just execute `prompt_p10k_compile`)
 - ZSH builtins and binary modules are used instead of GNU utils / external binaries.

Timing example compared to other shell prompts: (Nov. 2018)
```
# P10K: Renders both left and right variables:
( repeat 1000; do; prompt_p10k_render_to_vars > /dev/null; done; )  1.28s user 0.26s system 99% cpu 1.542 total

# P9K 0.6: Functions for left/right
( repeat 1000; do; build_left_prompt > /dev/null && build_right_prompt > ; ; )  88.42s user 50.85s system 114% cpu 2:01.69 total

# Pure: render in precmd
( repeat 1000; do; prompt_pure_precmd > /dev/null; done; )  0.43s user 0.12s system 99% cpu 0.555 total

```
> All tests done with Git information enabled and with the same git repo state.

## GitLab vs GitHub

P10K started on [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/robobenklein/p10k), but is mirrored to GitHub for availability purposes. Both the repo and the wiki are mirrored. (So `robobenklein/p10k` works in plugin managers with GitHub as the default.)

Issues should be reported on [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/robobenklein/p10k/issues), as it has a slightly better issue tracker and allows things like file attachments.
